[Page 5 — SPM]
A.2.2 Approximately 3.3 to 3.6 billion people live in contexts that are highly vulnerable to climate change. Human and 
ecosystem vulnerability are interdependent. Regions and people with considerable development constraints have high 
vulnerability to climatic hazards. Increasing weather and climate extreme events have exposed millions of people 
to acute food insecurity 12 and reduced water security, with the largest adverse impacts observed in many locations 
and/or communities in Africa, Asia, Central and South America, LDCs, Small Islands and the Arctic, and globally for 
Indigenous Peoples, small-scale food producers and low-income households. Between 2010 and 2020, human mortality

---

[Page 51 — CORPS]
levels is exacerbated by inequity and marginalisation linked to gender, 
ethnicity, low income or combinations thereof (high confidence), especially 
for many Indigenous Peoples and local communities (high confidence). 
Approximately 3.3 to 3.6 billion people live in contexts that are highly 
vulnerable to climate change ( high confidence). Between 2010 and 
2020, human mortality from floods, droughts and storms was 15 times 
higher in highly vulnerable regions, compared to regions with very low 
vulnerability (high confidence). In the Arctic and in some high mountain 
regions, negative impacts of cryosphere change have been especially felt 
among Indigenous Peoples ( high confidence). Human and ecosystem 
vulnerability are interdependent ( high confidence ). Vulnerability of

---

[Page 101 — CORPS]
Regions and people with considerable development constraints 
have high vulnerability to climatic hazards. Adaptation 
outcomes for the most vulnerable within and across countries 
and regions are enhanced through approaches focusing on 
equity, inclusivity, and rights-based approaches, including 3.3 to 
3.6 billion people living in contexts that are highly vulnerable 
to climate change ( high confidence ). Vulnerability is higher in 
locations with poverty, governance challenges and limited access 
to basic services and resources, violent conflict and high levels of 
climate-sensitive livelihoods (e.g., smallholder farmers, pastoralists, 
fishing communities) (high confidence). Several risks can be moderated 
with adaptation (high confidence ). The largest adaptation  gaps

---

[Page 71 — CORPS]
millions of people (under high vulnerability and high warming), particularly 
among low-income households in low- and middle-income countries in 
sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia and Central America (high confidence ). 
For example, snowmelt water availability for irrigation is projected 
to decline in some snowmelt dependent river basins by up to 20%  
(medium confidence ). Climate change risks to cities, settlements 
and key infrastructure will rise sharply in the mid and long term with 
further global warming, especially in places already exposed to high 
temperatures, along coastlines, or with high vulnerabilities ( high 
confidence). {WGII SPM B.3.3, WGII SPM B.4.2, WGII SPM B.4.5, WGII TS C.3.3, 
WGII TS.C.12.2} (Figure 3.3)

---

[Page 15 — SPM]
increasing global warming, interacting with non-climatic risk drivers such as competition for land between urban 
expansion and food production, pandemics and conflict. (high confidence) {3.1.2, 4.3, Figure 4.3}
B.2.4 For any given warming level, the level of risk will also depend on trends in vulnerability and exposure of humans and 
ecosystems. Future exposure to climatic hazards is increasing globally due to socio-economic development trends 
including migration, growing inequality and urbanisation. Human vulnerability will concentrate in informal settlements 
and rapidly growing smaller settlements. In rural areas vulnerability will be heightened by high reliance  on climate-

---

[Page 5 — SPM]
between 2006 and 2018 (high confidence). Human influence was very likely the main driver of these increases since at 
least 1971. Evidence of observed changes in extremes such as heatwaves, heavy precipitation, droughts, and tropical 
cyclones, and, in particular, their attribution to human influence, has further strengthened since AR5. Human influence 
has likely increased the chance of compound extreme events since the 1950s, including increases in the frequency of 
concurrent heatwaves and droughts (high confidence). {2.1.2, Table 2.1, Figure 2.3, Figure 3.4} (Figure SPM.1)
A.2.2 Approximately 3.3 to 3.6 billion people live in contexts that are highly vulnerable to climate change. Human and

---

[Page 50 — CORPS]
associated with increasing temperatures (high confidence), trauma from 
extreme events (very high confidence), and loss of livelihoods and culture 
Figure 2.3: Both vulnerability to current climate extremes and historical contribution to climate change are highly heterogeneous with many of those who have 
least contributed to climate change to date being most vulnerable to its impacts. Panel (a) The IPCC AR6 WGI inhabited regions are displayed as hexagons with identical size 
in their approximate geographical location (see legend for regional acronyms). All assessments are made for each region as a whole and for the 1950s to the present. Assessments made